In this lesson I'm going to show you how to upgrade
laravel Q/A app from Version 5.6 to version
5.7 and here I've already open the upgrade
guide from laravel official documentation as
reference. Now before we're moving on here I'm going
to show you two different ways that you can follow
when upgrading your laravel application.
So the first one is you read and follow every
step from the top all the way down.
Then the second one is you go to button open this
Github comparison tool
hit file changes
and you can compare the changes
side by side.
In this video we'll be using the first and second ways
together because by using this way we will know
what changes that we need and don't need to apply
in our app and how those changes impact our app
as you see here.
Now some changes that's not required could be not covered
in this upgrade guide but to make our application's
files in sync maybe not all files just certain files so
we'll go to Github comparison tool and compare
some file changes.
Okay to start off let's open up our terminal
change the working directory to our laravel app
here on my Mac I cd to workspace laravel laravel
dash qa and as always let's isolate our work today into new branch.
So just in case we are getting unwanted error after upgrade we can always revert back to a previous version.
Here
I'm going to call it laravel
dash v five point seven.
Let's go back to our browser back to upgrade guide
and here
the first thing that we need to do is to update our
dependencies or packages that needed by laravel
and the most important is laravel framework package
and we can do that by specify this version in
our composer.json file.
Currently we are not using a level passport so we can
ignore this. But just in case you're using it you
also need to upgrade  to version 7.0
Also we need to update the third party packages that
consumed by our app so that they can properly work
after updating. To do this
let's go to comparison tool
and then find composer.json
There we go
and here we can compare the changes
side by side.
But the most important here are require and require
dev sections. In require section we only need to
change the laravel framework from 5.6 to 5.7
So let's do that in our project
let's open composer.json
and change this to five point seven back to our browser
And here in Level 5.7 we will find new
package added in require dev section.
As you can see in the previous section it doesn't exist yet
so let's copy this
back to our editor and paste in this require dev.
Here we have third party package called laravel debug bar
and currently when I recorded this video it has three
point two version.
So let's also change this to three point two. All right
let's save the change back to our terminal
and type 'composer update' to update our dependencies
now while updating we can update our core application.
So let's go back to our browser back to laravel guide
here in application section
we can skip this register method because
we did not override the register method.
Now we can go to artisan and we can also skip this
because we're not using this scheduled job method.
Let's continue to assets. And here
there is a little bit change in assets directory
the assets rectory that contains the script and styles
has been flattened into the resources directory.
So there's no more assets directory the js and
sass directory are inside resources directory.
But as noted here that these changes
will not affect existing application.
You can keep the assets directory as
it was or you can follow this guide
It doesn't matter.
I prefer to follow this guide.
So let's go back to our editor.
Here I'll move
this js directory beneath resource
and then I'll do the same thing to sass directory
and now I can remove this directory
Now since the
js
and sass path has been changed.
I also need to adjust the path in web
pack mix js. So let's open that file
and here I'll change this from resources assets
js
app dot js to
resource js app dot js and also change this from
resource asset sass to resource sass app dot scss
and that's it.
I don't need to touch this prismjs path.
Okay let's safe, back to our browser
and here
Level 5.7 has svg directory added in public directory.
It contains four SVG files 403, 404, 500 and
503 which are displayed on their respective error pages.
We can go to this link let's
download entire repo
hit clone or download and hit
download zip
I'll open the zip file
go to public directory and here let's copy this svg directory.
Let's navigate to laravel app
paste here
all right
let's go back to our browser switch to a laravel guide.
And here we can skip this authentication because
we didn't override the method that mentioned here.
So let's continue to authorization
so if your are implementing this interface you
should add this method to your implementation.
We did not implement this interface so we can skip this.
Also we can skip this login event because
we are not using it
Okay let's see in blade section.
The or operator likelihood of impact is high
I'm sure I'm not using this operators so far, but just
in case you use this operator make sure to change
from or to double question marks.
Ok let's see in cash section
likelihood of impact is very high here we need to add data directory in storage framework cache of our
app we can do that by simply copy these command head over to our terminal
press a command and hit return now just in case the company stop work you can simply go to your editor
navigate to storage framework cache and here you can create the data directory back to our browser
and here we need to add the get ignore file inside the newly created data directory
we can do that by simply copy this command.
So this command is instruction to copy the giving or file from cache directory to cache data.
OK let's go to our terminal pest command and hit return.
If you're using Windows this command might be not working but don't worry you can go to your editor
copy the get ignore from here and paste here and here.
Let's open the gate ignore inside cache directory
and here we can add exclamation mark data or a slash that's noted here
right for carbon collection
and cookie we can skip all of these now for database I think we can all skip all of these
except
this one if you're using SQL Server as your database make sure you read this guide and if you're using
a single light in your database you need to read this guide
we can skip this debug section
as well as Quinn.
Now let's see the email verification likelihood of impact is optional that means we can add this feature
or ignore it will not affect our app but I think this feature is very cool so let's follow this game
first we need to add verification controller in app to be control or else directory of our app.
So let's go to our flight explorer guilds our level 5 1 7 directory
then navigate to app it be controller.
Let's copy this for controller file
okay.
Let's switch back over to our browser and here we did modify our app user model to implement must verify
email contract let's copy this line back to our editor open the user model
as they come in here.
And here after all the cable let's Ed implement must verify email make the wrestler
and we need to define verified middleware in route middleware property of our up to the kernel.
By doing this way we can verify that only verify the user.
My ex isn't even real.
So let's copy this line head over to our editor.
Open kernel PSP
and paste here
OK.
Victor Bressler
and here we need to add new view called verify led BSB inside resources we use of directory.
Let's hear this link
hit the button.
Select all content copy Victor edit editor navigate to seems this views of your file
let's call it fortify laid PSP and paste the code pink tor browser.
And here the next thing that we need to do is to add email verify at column inside our user stubble
so let's cover this line back to our editor.
And here you can go to migrations
on the create user stable
and pays the command here.
But by doing this way you need to clean your database and run all migration and you will lose your data.
This could be ok since we are in development but imagine you have production ready up.
I'm sure you don't need to list your data right.
So let's see an alternative way.
And before that here I'll under the change
let's switch over to our terminal and here.
Let's create the immigration file USP or CERN make migration and email verified at in users table
Victoria de la
open the file
here in a method we can pin the code
in here and done method distribute column
that's simple changes
in all this run our lives.
Migration in our terminal is be part of some migrate
all right back to our browser.
And here we say in order to send the email when a user is registered you should register following event
and listener in your app provider's event service provider
so let's copy these lines
Victor any Ed open a van service provider
paste make to a browser copy this lines.
Back to our editor here in listen.
That's like overseeing
the pace the previous code
here.
The final step on a silver vacation
is specify this verify option in our threads like this.
So back to our editor open Web BHP
here in route.
That's first fly free fly through.
OK.
Let's have a change let's switch back to our browser and here we can skip this filesystem hashing
and male
as well as queue
and for routing.
There is a note rather a method would you see the likelihood of impact is high
the rather of method returns a three hour to HDTV status code redirect the permanent ready Rick method
has been added to all three.
Also there directs
so if you were using this method in your app make sure you specify three or two as to the status code
in the third argument or you can replace with this permanent redirect method you can skip these at road
method.
Also this validation because it only tells us about nested religion rules
we can skip this one
but also this one and now we're almost done upgrading our core application to level 5 1 7.